We saw string here, that's great,
we might also wanna see what some
of the other common ones are.
So what are some of the other common types
that we might seek to use in a react
application?
And what kinda build on
this as the day goes on.
So commonly used props, we can see
we've got this counter props, right?
We saw the name as a string incident could
be a string, count could be a number,
all the primitives in JavaScript
are available to us in TypeScript as well.
If you wanna do an array, there's a few
different ways to tell it was stick with
this one which is you have,
whatever type it is.
And you'd use the brackets
scale that we see in arrays.
And what's interesting is, with all
the dynamic programming languages,
one of the first examples are,
and check it out.
You can put anything you want in an array,
you're gonna write a string and
then a number, and
then something else, right?
Generally speaking, if you whatever map
over an array, that's not super helpful.
So you could say that an array can
have either strings and numbers in it.
You can just say that it
has an array of anything or
arrays that are certain object or
shape along those lines.
But generally speaking, we can say that,
hey, not only is this an array,
what is an array that should
only consist of strings?
That way if somebody accidentally tries
to put undefined in that array or no, or
a primitive that we weren't expecting.
TypeScript will catch that for
us and be, whoa,
I don't think this is what you wanted
to do and that's helpful as well.
The other thing we can see is before
we set the name was a string,
any string, right?
Because, there's lots of names but
there are cases where we kind of want
one of a few different statuses, right?
We want not just any string, but
maybe we're making a button for
our component library and that button
should either be a primary button,
a secondary button or destructive button.
Right or
disable button what have you, right?
In that case, you might also define
which one of these statuses along with.
Now, yeah, status is a string, but it's
only one of three strings in existence,
if you're not using that string,
you're not passing it in.
So for objects,
generally speaking, you look kind of
that another object is just an empty
object that's just as long as there's
some kind of object, we can work with it.
But a lot of cases you might want
to define the shape of an object,
right, cool.
We're gonna pass in a prop that's an item,
it should have an ID, that's a string and
a title, that's a string.
One of the interesting things about
TypeScript as opposed to some other typed
languages is TypeScript uses
what's called structural typing.
Which is,
as long as it's an object that conforms
to the shape that we're expecting,
we should be good to go, you don't have
to necessarily define every single type.
TypeScript will mostly try to figure it
out because JavaScript itself allows you
to do pretty dynamic programming.
TypeScript tries to look at the structure
of stuff rather than the name or
anything along those lines.
So an item is just simply a JavaScript
object in this case that has an ID and
a title.
Items plural, will be an array and in
which case we can define the shape of it.
This was looking like this makes you sad,
that's probably a good feeling
that you should nurture and
respect because we could theoretically
pull that out into its own type, right?
TypeScript doesn't enforce it,
everything has a type associated with it.
You wanted to find is just an object and
has a type ID and a title, cool,
but you could also pull that
item out into its own type.
So now a single item is of the type item,
and items floral is an array of items,
you can begin to kinda refactor your
code if things get a little crazy.
All right, some other ones that we
might see along the way, which is.
Listen, this item might
have any kinda keys, but
those keys have to be strings and
the value should be an item.
Or if we wanna say that the key is
a number and the value is a string,
we can define all those things as well.
This is another syntax for
doing it that I don't use.
Alright, and terms of methods and
stuff along those lines,
you can kinda see towards the bottom,
there was a common one that you might say,
which is what are your mistakes?
What types of those arguments, which is
a little bit different than JavaScript.
I know you define three arguments can
give me zero, you can give me eight,
I don't really care.
Typescript's a little bit more, listen,
if you said, we're gonna pass in an ID and
it's gonna be a number,
that's what I wanna see.
And if it returns undefined,
a lot of times we say that it returns
void, if it doesn't return anything,
or if we intentionally return
undefined will say void.
So stuff like event handlers and
stuff that don't return anything,
they just execute.
So those would return void, and you can
also see that react comes with a whole
bunch of TypeScript definitions for
common things that you might see.
So if you look at this bottom one here,
we've got React.MouseEvent with this
HTML button element because just to make
sure that you're earning your salary.
We all know that events are not the same,
some of them have a target with a value
and stuff along those, every keyboard
events have different properties and
mouse events, so on and so forth.
So in order for TypeScript to help you
a lot of times it needs to know what
event you're intending this to be.
So, doesn't have a key code or what not,
depending on the type of event.
So we will come with a lot of
the definitions necessary,
so if you know this is onclick handler
on a button, you can be, okay, cool.
It's gonna be a mouse event
from HTML button, right?
And then TypeScript, all right,
cool, I know what's on that event.
Let me autocomplete let me make sure
you don't misspell event.target or
something along those lines
because TypeScript you're
trying to solve save you from two things.
One is, logical mistakes but
let's be really honest with ourselves
most of bugs in my code are,
I misspelled something and
then I don't know what I misspelled.
And then I lose the better part of my
morning and possibly the first half of
my afternoon to find out that I
misspelled an action type in Redux.
Maybe you're better than me, I don't know,
that's my life, that's how it works,
all right?
If there's a return value, and we wanna
define it, we just saw ones that we won't
have a type that had a method or
something along those lines.
If we wanna just define what a function
does in line, we can say okay a and
b should be numbers and the return type
here is a number you see after that colon.
One of the things we're gonna see and
I want you to kinda look out for
it as we write some code
together a little bit.
Is that if a and b are a number and
you're returning a+b,
you can even omit the return type,
because TypeScript would be,
if you give me two numbers and
you return them added together.
I'm smart I can figure out that
a number plus a number is a number.
You'll only need to tell TypeScript about
the types if it can't figure it out itself
for some reason, most of the time,
if it can figure it out,
you can omit tons of this stuff.
It'll be the same way when we
saw that original name tag was,
this is a function that takes no
arguments returns a JSX element.
Why, cuz he returned some JSX and
it figured all that out for you.
Optional props, which we'll see in
a little bit If you just put a question
mark, and so we have required prop, which
is a boolean, then we have optional prop.
Optional prop is one that we could have or
could not have.
Now, the interesting thing about that is
TypeScript is also gonna try to save you
from yourself, right.
In so far, if you say that a property
is optional in a react component, and
then you try to use it, TypeScript is
gonna get a little annoyed with you.
And it's gonna say basically,
hey, that could be undefined and
you didn't check yet, right.
And so it is going to insist that you
check if something is undefined before you
use it in the react component.
There are other all sorts of stuff,
we'll get into some of it in a little bit.
But that is enough that you need to
know to be dangerous to build some react
components.